[Music]
hi my name is Josh Zander I'm the
teaching professional here at Stanford
University Golf Course and host teaching
professional for my smart golf today I
want to talk about the correct position
of the left wrist at the top of your
backswing the answer is there isn't one
great Golf has been played with many
different positions of the left wrist at
the top of the backswing players have
played great golf with a cupped position
of left wrist a flat position the left
wrist and a bowed position at the left
wrist at the top of the backswing
players that come to mind who played
with a cup left wrist something like
Paul Azinger Freddie couples both great
players major champs at winners cup left
wrist at the top of the backswing flat
left wrist at the top Jose Maria
Olazabal
Tiger Woods plays a pretty flat left
wrist position at the top and then last
one a bowed left wrist position at the
top Lee Trevino Tom Lehman Lee Trevino
is one of the best players of all time
arguably one of the best ball strikers
of all time so there's no one correct
position of the left wrist at the top of
the backswing as a teacher I will not
change the position of the left wrist
unless it's going to help the ball
flight or the impact I want my students
to be able to compress the ball
correctly and to hit their desired ball
flight now if you're looking to have a
square clubface at the top of your
backswing the left wrist position
becomes very crucial and it has to do
with how you grip the club let's say you
have a weak a neutral or a strong grip
one of three variations the person with
the weak grip some you like Jose Maria
Olazabal
is going to look flat at the top and
that clubface is very square some of you
like Tiger Woods there's a little more
neutral where the V here is pointing
more towards the right ear we'll look
just ever so slightly
and that clubface is square at the top
and then somebody like Freddie couples
who's got a very strong grip when they
take it to the top the clubface is still
square but the wrist is very very cupped
at the top of the backswing you can see
it here in front by how I my wrists
if I've got that weak grip when I
my wrist this stays fairly flat or maybe
even bowed out a little bit if I go to a
neutral grip and I my wrist there's
a slight Cup there and if I go really
strong and I my wrist there's a big
Cup in my left wrist so your grip
affects the position of the clubface at
the top of the backswing we have an
inside joke as golf instructors that
most of our business comes from friends
helping friends how to play golf and a
lot of times it's a misunderstanding of
the left wrist position leads us to to
getting some more golf lessons and the
reason is if your friend tells you to
just do something because Tiger does it
or because Hogan does it they're not
necessarily understanding the
relationship between that piece of
advice and what's happening at impact
what we're doing on the lesson tee all
day is fixing ball flight and fixing
impact my philosophy of teaching is to
make sure that my students leave with
the correct impact and their desired
ball flight so let's talk about how the
position of the left wrist is going to
affect impact if I have a neutral grip
so maybe a slight cup in my left wrist
if I decide from there to then bow out
my left wrist or flatten it out if you
will because that's what Tiger does I
have just shut the clubface and hit a
low hook also if you think of my hand is
the ground and I have a shut face that
Club has now dug deep into the ground so
not only have I hooked it but I've stuck
the club right in the ground as well so
my impact is very poor and obviously the
ball fly it's not the desired ball
flight another person might say yeah I
looked at Hogan's video and he's got it
really cupped at the top well if you
think about the history
Hogan's game he was a big hooker of the
golf ball to the point where he couldn't
even use a driver he was starting to tee
off with his 5-wood
some people say it the secret the
Hogan's secret was to cup his left wrist
well what does cupping a left wrist do
it opens a clubface so for him it was a
perfect match to what he did in his golf
swing so next time somebody gives you
advice and I may be hurting my business
by saying this but next time somebody
gives you advice make sure that whatever
they tell you is going to help your ball
flight and help your impact position if
not run the other way you don't want to
listen to advice it's going to hurt your
game don't do it because it looks good
do it because it makes your ball flight
and your impact look good so to review
if you're looking for a square clubface
at the top your grip has a lot to do
with it the weaker your grip the flatter
or even bowed out your left wrist is
going to look and the stronger your grip
the more cupped your left wrist is going
to look in order to have a square
clubface at the top but I can't stress
enough that anything you do with your
left wrist position at the top of the
backswing better help your ball flight
if you would like to see any more of my
instructional videos and to find the
best website for charting and
understanding your game go to WWE smart
golf calm
[Music]